Kafka

Topic
Each kafka topic has partition in it where actual data is stored.
If a key is passed while publishing to a topic, then messages with same key will go to same partition.
else messages will be stored in partition in round-robin manner.

Consumer group can have multiple consumers.
Each consumer from consumer group will only consume from one partition i.e. one partition can only be consumed by one consumer from same group. 
e.g. If we have consumer group 1 and it has 2 consumer i.e. consumer1 & consumer2 and we have a topic xyz which has 2 partition p1 and p2. then in this case, partition p1 will only be consumed by either consumer1 or consumer2 and same goes for partition p2.

Consumer from different group can consume from same partition. for e.g. If we have two consumer group i.e. group 1 and group 2 and in each group we have two consumers. So in topic xyz, from p1 partition, consumers from these two groups can consume from same partition.


Zookeeper maintains the offset, of a topic, for each consumer of a consumer group. Like in partition, till which offset message has been consumed, who consumed the the message i.e. which consumer and from which consumer group.
If any consumer from a consumer group goes down, kafka will pick another consumer to consume message from that partition.


Group of broker (kafka server) is known as cluster.
So, in a topic xyz, partition p1 can be stored in broker 1 and partition p2 for same topic can be stored in broker 2.
This is called leader of broker. for e.g. here p1 is the leader of broker 1 and p2 is the leader of broker 2 for topic xyz. All read/write happens on leader partition. 
Also each partition will have it's replica in other broker. So broker 2 will have replica of p1 and broker 1 will have replica of p2.
If leader partition (broker) goes down, follower/replica partition will take over.

Also follower/replica partition continously gets updated with latest partition record.


Messages which got failed or didn't got processed will go to failure/dead letter queue.